---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Building_of_Kaceli_family"
latitude: "41.32776"
longitude: "19.82074"
image: Building_of_Kaceli_family_08.jpg
---
It is thought to have been built in 1930, otherwise known as the 'Vllazen Kaceli' Palace, as well as the inscription on the west façade. It is among the first examples of palaces built to host different rental families, with no connection between them. The building has been a very important part of Tirana's silhouette for years because it has always been there, present and featured in a series of photos and paintings from the Tirana Liberation in 44'. It has a rational, Italian-influenced architecture. One of the first residential buildings in Tirana built with a roof and its two lateral sides, the eastern and western sides, with almost-closed facades (without windows), back then with the purpose of gradually attaching other adjacent buildings to these ones. There are many stories told by the descendants of the family nowadays, related to this building with various events happening there. One of the family's members, the painter Sadik Kaceli, lived with his wife for years in one of the apartments, in the attic, and he used to take many photos of Tirana at that time, mostly photos with historical value. According to family stories, while trying to photograph the Germans in 'Skanderbeg' square, the light reflection from the lens of his camera in the sun, was noticed by a German soldier, in one of the square bunkers, causing a massive shooting towards him. He escaped from the bullets, that actually provoked a hole into a drawing protractor, still preserved today by the  Kaceli family members as part of the memory of the event. Another prominent figure in the family who had a fate different from Sadik, was his other brother 'Jonuz Kaceli' who was persecuted by the communist regime and shot dead with the accused people charged for bombing the Soviet Embassy, and persecution continued for his family, his wife and the children he left.