---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Puppet_Theater"
longitude: "19.81759"
latitude: "41.32726"
image: Puppet_theater_small.jpg
---
The plan for the realization of the 'Parliamentary Building' has been conceived since 1923, even though elsewhere as a location. Meanwhile, in 1924 the officers built the 'Officers' Club' in the location that today is The Puppet Theater. Due to the inability to realize a new building for the Parliament, the 'Officers Club' was adapted as the 'Parliament Building' until fascist Italy occupied Albania in 1939. In 1930, the building was reconstructed, several changes were made, the dome in the center of the roof was removed and other roof tiles of the time the 'marseille' tile units, were placed and the 'ethernite' layer removed. From this reconstruction, it changed much from the original appearance, returning to a more common building. While it represented a very special building as the first building of administrative character built in Tirana, at that time and due to a slightly different architecture from the dominant one, it had a more Germanic style(austro-hungarian). In 1939 it was taken over by the fascists and transformed into the 'The House of Fascio'. Later from 1950-1957 it was used as the Cultural Center 'Club of the Soviets'. in 1960-1961 it was adapted as a Puppet Theater, a function it still holds today. From 1996-2000, it started to be used for children's entertainment as well as the headquarters of the City Council but did not continue after 2000, after the City Hall provided a specific addition building for the City Council meetings. Several restoration projects have been carried out for the building, but have not been applied and the building has been alienated for years by interventions.