---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Villa_Fortuzi"
longitude: "19.815763"
latitude: "41.332817"
image: villa_fortuzi_small.jpg
---
Villa ‘Fortuzi’ was built from Omer Fortuzi, it is believed around 1920. He used to be one of the first Albanian engineers and a member of one of the biggest and most important families in the city. Being once the mayor of Tirana( from 1940-1943), while he had this position he always tried to implement as many Italian projects as he could. The architecture of this villa is a confirmation of this intent too. It represents a very unique villa typology, with a very different architecture, compared to what was usually realized at the time, three-storey house designed with organic curves in all of its floors and very visible in its overall characteristic volumetry. It has an 'L' shape ground-floor blueprint, with two different entrances both accessing on abundant gardens. The main entrance door is very monumental with symmetric organic volumes. The organic lines follow also the way the terrace's metallic handrailing was designed and implemented. Its focal point is the entrance that representing the main symmetry ax of the building, is composed of three, 2 storey high, rectangular columns. The ground floor facade, the three entrance columns and the surrounding walls are covered with red brick tiles an element that links the entire composition of this villa. During communism, it is believed the original owners were expropriated and recently it hosted the offices of the Social-democratic party of Albania