---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Villa_1_along_Rruga_%27Siri_Kodra%27"
longitude: "19.82191"
latitude: "41.33469"
image: Villa_1_on_rruga_Siri_Kodra_small.jpg
---
This house is located along 'Dibra' Street. It is one of the typologies of the characteristic traditional Tirana houses. Usually, these houses did not extend along the road but were rather shifted to it leaving space for the yard at the front of the house as well as the back porch, both very rich and spacious. In terms of construction, these houses were made of 60-70cm thick walls (clay brick dried in the sun) bonded between them with clay mortar and interspersed each 70cm-1m with anti-seismic wooden bands placed one inside and one outside the construction, creating a wooden skeleton. The masonry on both sides is plastered with mud and painted with lime as well, to a great extent and for good hygiene. They communicated with the road through the perimeter walls and a two-door gate to create access for the horses. Part of the courtyard was paved with cobblestones, slabs of river stone and part of it in the courtyard developed a well, which for many houses was shared with neighbors, not every house owned one. The part of the garden rich with many fruit trees, aromatic and ornamental plants. The house gates did not close with keys, and at times there were internal gates that connected the houses between them until 1944 this feeling of security and confidence in the city continued. This typology of Tirana's houses with spacious courtyards persisted until 1944, and this typology of house-building was realized until the 1920s when by law in 1922, it was banned from being continuously built. Later on, around 1925 and afterward, the period of construction of the most modern residential townhouses, continued according to European models. The 'Vaqarri' house represents a typology of Tirana's houses with adobe brick walls and anti-seismic bands, but one of its facades is oriented along the main road leaving the organization of its inner courtyard, and the main entrance gate on its surrounding wall. It is currently in a very bad state and almost deserted, only an elderly lady lives in and its ground floor is used for commercial services.