---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Villa_3_on_Rruga_Qemal_Stafa"
longitude: "19.82651"
latitude: "41.3316"
image: Villa_3_on_Rruga_Qemal_Stafa_small.jpg
---
This Villa belongs to the 'Pustina' family. It's construction begun in 1925 and finalized in 1927. This house stands along 'Qemal Stafa' street, from which it is distanced by an 18 m yard. This is not its whole original yard. five meters away from the villa, there's a five-floor silicate-brick residential building (built during socialism), which occupies part of its outdoor space. The villa is a mix of traditional architectural features like space organization rationality, the use of decorative wooden elements in the ceilings, or the emphasis of an element, like 'erker', in volumetry similar to many korcar houses. Also the use of neo-classic, European-influenced balcony and facade ornaments. It is organized in two floors where the ground floor has a lower height and during the years has suffered many changes, to meet the different, many inhabitants requests, like for example the creation of a secondary lateral door, or the placement of a ramp for people with physical impairments, along the main entrance. The pavement of this floor is treated with small decorative tiles, with motifs, while the ceiling of each space is covered in painted, decorative wood. On both floors, the main hall plays an important role in bringing together all the main spaces. On the first floor, it can be accessed by the monumental external staircase, which is so important for the whole volumetry of this villa. The first floor is developed with a considerate height, more lighting, a feature similar to many traditional houses where more importance is placed on the upper floor as the main living area. Its floor is all paved with wood, while the ceiling is the same as on the ground floor. The rooms are spacious and each has access to a bathroom and built-in closet. The presence of a laundry room and of a balcony, in the southern part of the villa is a sign that the owners were part of a high socio-economic rank. The whole facade of the villa is covered by decorative elements, with floral motifs. The family lived there, during 1944-1945, after this period it was confiscated by the state, to be taken back after, by its original owner's sons, after the fall of Communism. The lack of consensus among its owners and the lack of interest from the responsible, appropriate structures, in giving it protected status, has brought its alarming, degraded state of nowadays.