---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Villa_on_Rruga_Sotir_Peci"
longitude: "19.8086"
latitude: "41.33107"
image: Villa_on_Rruga_Sotir_Peçi_small.jpg
---
The Villa was commissioned by Dine Hoxha around 1931, a merchant from Dibra and an important figure at the time. It is located along 'Sotir Peci' street perpendicular to 'Durres' street and from the urban point of view, its somehow hidden, because of the residential building height, between the villa and the main street, that was built in 1959. Therefore it can be considered as a 'hidden treasure' of the area. During Communism, the Hoxha family was taken out of the villa to another house close-by, in the same neighborhood. Later on, the original owners moved back to the villa but because of their poor economic condition, they weren't able to look after the villa or restore it. Through the years Dine Hoxha's nephew has been living in a nearby house, leaving the villa to the families in need as it still is today. The villa is organized on three floors, one underground and two visible. Its main entrance is located in the north-east area and it's obvious by the use of the monumental, double ramp staircase, which forms in between a green patio, where a taller tree than the altimetry of the villa, is located. The south-eastern part of the house represents the first break in its volume, as it undergoes a visible retraction in the shape of a 'porch' with a double column system, located on the first floor. Another characteristic for its volumetry is the presence of a six-angled prism volume element, which rises in the northwestern part of the villa and on the first floor with the same column system, holding a roof with arched tiles. All the facades of the villa have been treated with many neo-classical ornaments and details that include window frames, doors, floors partitioning or wall corners. Its condition today shows a continuous lack of treatment, facing massive plaster-stripping of the façades and the exterior of the brick walls left visible. The main staircase part of it has been re-created, with concrete blocks which are far from being the material used in the original construction technique of the house.