---
city: tirana
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Villa_Nepravishta"
longitude: "19.811694"
latitude: "41.328449"
image: villa_nepravishta_small.jpg
---
The Villa is positioned in the intersection of ‘Rruga Kont Urani’ and 'Rruga Kavajes' once known as Boulevard ‘Mussolini’ using a surface area of 1437m2. This project was realized in 1935 but the construction works lasted until 1936, from the Italian engenieer Giulio Berte (whome is a very important name in the history of the architecture of Tirana, the one who realized The Palace of Brigades, once ‘The Royal Villa’ and  the design of the Scanderbeg Square in Tirana). This villa was commissioned by the once mayor of the Municipality of Tirana, Abedin Nepravishta ( Mayor from 1934-1936, and 1937-1939). This project was thought to have influenced King Zogu to ask Berte to realize also the project for his residence villa, ‘Royal Villa’ very notable today because of some similirities in terms of their design. Like many other Italian architects of that time G.Berte also intended a rational style with a representative character not realated to the existing architecture of the surrounding but  providing a certain combination of modernity and identity of the context also respecting specific urban conditions towards the main streets. Being a villa situated  in a crossroad of two very important mobility axes, it’s volumetry as a result was very defined and geometric, at the same time monumental providing a view towards the ‘Mussolini’ Boulevard, ‘Ethem Bej Mosque’ and further on to the main ‘Scanderbeg Square’. It has a very clear plan organizations, with an underground plan, ground floor plan, first floor and terrace. Talking about the functional organization , its ground floor was meant to host mixed use spaces.Thre  main areas along the Boulevard Mussolini , treated like duplexes with specific staircases connecting to the first floor and  the technical  spaces underground. The other part of the ground floor plan was reserved for  an apartment  that communicated also to the inner garden. Meanwhile all the first floor has a residential use therefore represents a more intimate space. Its structural system is a compound one with  perimetral massive walls of 30-45cm and inner reinforced concrete beam-column system.From 1945 until 1992 it served as a Kindergraden  and after 1992 the original owners got it back.