---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Emin_Gjiku_Complex"
longitude: "21.16820"
latitude: "42.66866"
image: Emin_Gjiku_Complex_23.jpg
---
The synagogue or as it appears in some sources the Jewish warehouse, was part of the Pristina bazaar, and the only structure left by this trading ensemble. According to interviews with people who remember that time, in the book Monography of Pristina by S. Gashi, the synagogue was positioned where today is the back entrance of the Kosovo Parliament building. In 1960 the synagogue was relocated, dismantled piece by piece, to be reconstructed at the city's ethnographic museum complex, where it is still located today. Based on the information poster in front of the museum this was a one-story building, built of stone and covered with a stone roof, once a blacksmith shop. Until a few years ago it was used as a center of contemporary art but today it out of usage. The Ethnographic Museum or as it is also known the house of Emin Gjiku marks a frequent architectural layer of residential buildings of the 18th and 19th century in the cities of Kosovo. It is the most representative example of this category, at the same time the most advanced typology of vernacular adobe houses. It is understood that there are influences and elements of Ottoman architecture but with expressions and creativity of local craftsmen. Emin Gjiku house is a typical example of family houses in a high social position, as is the case of the Gjinolli family. The size, decorations and number of openings have shown the position of the family in society in economic, cultural and social terms. They had large courtyards with accompanying functions, surrounded by high walls, 55 cm thick, built of clay bricks and wooden beams due to the privacy and protection of female morality. The ensemble consists of 2 large courtyards, the entrance courtyard with the guest house on its right side and the Jewish depot (synagogue) on the left side, and the inner courtyard, with the family house (haremlik) and the guest house (selamlik ). Both houses are two-storey buildings, where the first floor is built with stone foundation up to a certain height from the ground, then with earth bricks reinforced with horizontal wooden elements, while the upper floor consists of wooden skeleton construction (bondruk system) filled with adobe bricks. It is worth noting that these buildings are very cleverly designed utilizing solar energy and controlling it at the same time, with every element well thought out for specific reasons. For example. the south-facing porch eave is extended in order to protect the space from overheating during the summer and allowing the sun when at a low angle during the winter. What characterizes the interior of these houses is the warmth created by the use of wood in the decoration of ceilings and cupboards, they are well-lit spaces and with attention to the human scale. Living spaces have been multifunctional in which the family has performed all the functions of living, eating, sleeping and living in the same space. The room is also a space where dishes, mattresses and daily cleaning space (guzelhanen) were stored. Due to its characteristic architectural typology, aesthetic, historical and educational value, the ensemble was listed under state protection in 1964. Until 1990, the Emin Gjiku complex served as a Natural Museum and then in 2003 turned into an Ethnological Museum housing a wide collection of ethnographic elements used in the daily life of the Albanian society of that time. It has been rated by 'The Guardian' as one of the 12 Best Museums in Europe.  The last restoration started in 2017 and a fund of 30 thousand Euros has been allocated for it. But this fund is completely insufficient for the restoration project, which is approved by the Kosovo Institute for the Protection of Monuments. During the last two months of 2017 the walls of the building were bare to the skeleton. The floor is completely removed and the building is supported by only a few wooden pillars. The adobe infill has also been removed from the interior walls. Some interventions have been made on the roof, where the tiles have been removed and sheets have been placed to prevent rainfall. Even on the last visit in October 2020, the building is still in the process of restoration, still naked to the construction, where inside the fence is only its skeleton. The mortar was removed from the outer walls up to the birch part. At the moment the works are suspended and the museum is partially open to visitors.
