---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:%27Rilindja%27_Media-house_Building"
longitude: "21.15606"
latitude: "42.65944"
image: Media-House_Rilindja_08.jpg
---
The idea for the press palace began in the 1960s, but came to Skopje architect Georgi Kostandinovski  (a student of American architect Paul Rudolph at Yale University and an intern at IM Pei studio) in 1971, and in three months, in his bureau  called 'Underground' (along with a group of engineers and architects), the Rilindja palace was conceived. The cornerstone of the building was laid in 1972 but construction works were halted for financial reasons, to continue again in 1974. In 1978 the building was completed. The building consisted of a high 18-storey tower where the spaces of journalism and publishing were located and the printing room (below the tower), distributed in two floors. The plan of the tower floor is square, with constructive cores in the center and 30x140 pillars around the perimeter of the building, clearly visible even on the façade, as part of the brutalism language. Vertical communication and services were located in the central constructive cores. Part of the expression on the facade are the vertical elements, with the impression of  a triangle shape, colored in white, elements which give verticality and volumetric depth to the building. It is characteristic to mention, innovative for the time, the fact that all the installations necessary for the functioning of the building, go through these elements of the facade, an idea for which the architect was inspired by his professor Paul Rudolph in the Boston Government project. The printing house has constructive pillars 1x1m at a distance of 10m from each other to create free space in the placement of printing machines. During the 80's and 90's, Rilindja, equipped with the most advanced technology of the time, entered the international printing market, printing books known from Poland, East Germany, Hungary, Slovenia and more. Also, the building has historical value because it was deliberately built to host the first Albanian printing media during Socialist Yugoslavia, therefore was considered as a 'nest' of intellectuals of the time. In November 2008, the Press Palace was renovated to accommodate the Ministry of Public Services, giving it a new envelope, which to this day, has completely covered the architectural expression, vulnerability and simplicity of the building, characteristic of the modern architectural movement when this project was conceived. The intervention in the image of the building has simultaneously affected the silhouette of the city. During his visit to Pristina after many years, architect Konstandinovski did not recognize his building. The printing spaces have been abandoned for a long time while periodically being used for years informally, as  restaurants, radio and TV stations, gyms, etc. and partially abandoned, but still remains with the features closest to its original condition in comparison with the tower.
