---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Clock_Tower_in_Pristina"
longitude: "21.1662572"
latitude: "42.666692"
image: Clock_Tower_,_Prishtina,_Kosovo_1.jpg
---
Clock towers were important structures of the urban centers of cities with Ottoman influence. They were built near the bazaars and in this way it helped the merchants to know the exact time when they opened and closed the shop. In parallel, being a tall structure and identifiable point in the city, helped foreign traders to find the location of the bazaar easier where they would trade goods. The clock tower of Pristina was built at the end of the XIX century by Jashar Pasha, after whom is named the mosque, not so far from here. It is located in the urban ensemble of the old town along with the large hammam and the King Mosque. The clock tower has a hexagonal base with a height of 26m. Up to 16.5 m it is made of stone while the rest up to the roof is made of brick, with small arched openings on all six sides. The roof is made of wooden construction and covered with lead. Inside the tower there are circular stairs made of stone (slabs) to the brick part, from where on the stairs continue to be made of wood, an element that indicates that this part was (re) built later. Until 2001, when the theft of the artifact took place, there existed the original bell (functional until the 70s) with the inscription of 1764, as the date of production, brought from Moldavia. Today, the clock tower is a listed and protected monument. Unfortunately it is not open to visitors and as such is abandoned and only adored from outside.