---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Film_Center_%27Kosovafilm%27"
longitude: "21.148764"
latitude: "42.663434"
---
The Kosovafilm building was designed by Kosovar architect Sali Spahiu and is located on the outskirts of the city of Pristina. The building is built on the hill of Arbëria (former Dragodan), in a location rich in vegetation, from where you can see very clearly the silhouette of the city of Pristina. According to the architect, the building was the only one in the context, therefore the whole articulation of the spaces in the floor plan extends wide, horizontally. The building has three floors where cinemas are located, a warehouse where movies are stored, administration, tonic hall (where movies are synchronized). The articulation of the spaces is in the form of cascades in order to extend as organically as possible on the context and allow views towards the silhouette of the city. Public and social spaces where film-related events were held are organized on the ground floor. The spaces inside the building receive a natural source of light through roof striped lighting, located in- between the floors. The sharp, ocher color of the facade came as inspiration from the photo film wrapper of the well-known company Kodak, to be related to the function of the building. The envelope was made of reinforced polestite, an innovative material for the Kosovo construction market of that period. The external architectural expression is in contrast with the environmental context, but in complete harmony, complementing each other. The Kosovafilm building received the first prize of the Association of Applied Artists of Kosovo and the 'Borba' award for architecture in Kosovo in 1987, for the interpolation of the building in the natural environment. Since 1999, the former Kosovafilm building has been used as the administrative building of a KFOR military base.
