---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Ex_Bankkos_Pristina"
longitude: "21.160851"
latitude: "42.659062"
image: Ex_Bankkos_02.jpg
---
In his interview for Oral History of Kosovo, architect Shefqet Mullafazliu, a graduate of the Faculty of Architecture at the University of Skopje in Northern Macedonia in 1969, recounts the time when BankKos was designed. He together with a colleague, also a former student from Skopje, worked on the idea for this building while they were employed in the construction company 'Ramiz Sadiku'. In the internal competition organized by the bank and the construction commission within the bank, Mr. Mullafazliu and his colleague represented the company, which later won the construction of BankKos as well. The Office for Urbanism and Design and other companies also participated in the competition for the design of this Bank. According to the architect, the building had such a volumetric solution and urban positioning due to the location in an urban corner, where two roads meet, a solution which opened the urban views and released the load of the road. He also mentions the fact that the functional part of the building and the standards related to banks (counters, administration and more) played a formative role in the project. Moreover, to free the pedestrian circulation at this intersection, it is believed that the building is erected on pillars on the western side. In the direction of George Bush Street, the building opens in the shape of a broken rectangle in the middle, where the stairs and the main entrance to the building were positioned. The materials used in both the construction and the covering of the building were local materials, a policy of that time for the use of local materials, according to the words of the architect. '... our concrete, the cement was from Hani i Elezit, the gravel was from our quarries. Only the iron we got from Zenica, Bosnia and so on ... the marble was from Deçan, some dark green colour with  white lines texture... It was strong marble, granite. ' Marble was a material widely used in many buildings of that time, such is still found in the Grand Hotel. Today the building has lost its exterior expression and original materials as it was renovated to be used by LC Waikiki store. Some volumes and architectural elements are still visible, but the loss of materiality has also lost the character of the time when it was built.
