---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Grand_Hotel,_Pristina"
longitude: "21.1580161"
latitude: "42.6597079"
image: Grand_Hotel_10.jpg
---
The Grand Hotel Pristina was designed in 1974 by Kosovar architect Bashkim Fehmiu and Serbian architect Dragan Kovacevic, as a medium-sized hotel representative of late modernist architecture in Pristina, aiming for an international style rather than actually trying to adapt to the surrounding architecture. It is located in the center of the city being a very important part of the general urban plan of 1953 for Pristina, by Dragutin Petrovic and serving as a gateway to the main square then called Marshall Tito, today Zahir Pajaziti, a very important position. studied by prof. Fehmiu as a result of his professional background in urban planning. The way it is located, somewhat breaking the linearity and continuity of the North-South Boulevard, creates valuable, positive public space around it. The building represents a reference point in the modernist architecture of Pristina, also because of its characteristic volume, made simply with clean volumes, transmitting a certain sense of rhythm and soothing repetition, from the street, placed in relation to each other. Tito also stayed in this hotel during his visit to Pristina. In 2012, the restoration project started to be implemented, but was stopped due to some protests by the union of citizens and architects of Pristina, against the way this intervention was being done. Due to numerous interventions over the years and especially in the interior, it has become very difficult to preserve as a Modernist Cultural Monument. The only remaining part of the interior is the reception and entrance hall, which has elements and materials preserved from the time of construction.
