---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Pristina_train_station"
longitude: "21.151287"
latitude: "42.658923"
image: Kosovo_railway_station_02.jpg
---
The railway system in Kosovo was completed between 1874 and 1963, first connecting the cities with each other and then with the railway networks in the region. The Pristina railway station building was built in 1936, by a French / British company, after the line was extended to the city in 1934. The line on which the station is located is with a railing, standard width, but there is no turning back to the station, allowing trains to cross through a second, parallel railing, which was out of use in October 2016. The entrance to the building is easily distinguishable by the extracted volume and two-sided roof. Also the entrance gate is the symmetrical point of the building which extends horizontally to one floor rising to two floors at both ends of the building. In the courtyard part, the building has the same architectural language except for the arcade where the waiting areas are located. The existing building still has original architectural elements preserved such as the ticket office, the gate and the decorative details of the ceilings. In recent years the building has been used as night bars and as a result in the south-western part of the building, there have been incompatible interventions presenting new materials and losing the characteristic details of this building and the architectural period it belongs. During the war, many Albanians from Kosovo were deported and transported by this train to the refugee camp in Blace, where the museum is located now. This building has indisputable historical and political value for the city and Kosovo as many citizens were separated from their families and expelled from their country at this exact point.
