---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Residential_building_%27Etnoteatri%27"
longitude: "21.2488514"
latitude: "42.6533922"
image: 
---
This residential complex was built at the end of the XIX century and consists of the following buildings: Residential House P+K - Residential House P+0 - Plemja. The buildings are organized around a longitudinal axis on one side or the other. The houses have the entrance oriented along the longitudinal axis in the opposite direction, while the fertilizer(???) has the entrance oriented in the normal direction with the axis. The P + K house in the village of Kukaj belongs to the type of open porch apartment buildings that were built during the XVIII-XIX centuries. The P + K house was built in the century. XIX, within the residential complex of the Hysaj family, in a rural setting, and consequently belongs to the type of Kosovo rural housing construction. The house is built on a sloping ground where the rear facade is ground-floor, while the front facade in the basement is half a floor. The ground floor of the building is made of carved stone with limestone mortar and the basement floor with basement system. The roof construction is of timber, foursquare, covered with clay tiles. During the emergency intervention of 2012, respecting the original shape of the roof, a new roof structure with pine wood and reused material was installed. The chimney was built, the staircase leading to the chalet and the chalet floor were rebuilt. There are also new wooden doors and windows on the floor. House P + 0 is made of limestone-bound stones. The base dimensions are 7.60 m x 5.15 m. At the front there is a 1.20 m wide porch covered with a roof. The roof is foursquare, covered with new tiles similar to traditional Roma. P + 1 feather built in the century. XIX for family needs for food storage. The grove is inside the residential complex. The ground floor made of stone has served as a cots, while the floor, where the animal feed is stored, is made of rooftops. It has a roof wall coverings with traditional Roma tiles. This residential complex has been turned into a theater, and part of the courtyard has been transformed into an open-air amphitheater, where the 'Ethnofest' is held, a cultural and artistic event whose aim is through theatrical performances, figurative exhibitions and ethno-performances with archaic and contemporary character to discover and rejuvenate the ethnocultural values.
