---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Student%27s_Menza_(canteen)"
longitude: "21.1626143"
latitude: "42.6543445"
image: Students_Menza_canteen_02.jpg
---
Following the expansion and construction of spaces for the functioning of the University of Pristina and its accompanying functions, the Student Canteen was built, in the vicinity of the University Campus. This building was designed in 1974, by the architect Dragan Radulović, who was also a professor at the Faculty of Architecture at the University of Pristina. The canteen is located on a steep terrain, with the Sun Hill on its back. The building is raised on two floors, formed by two volumes with a sloping roof, which are separated from each other by the volume, where the entrance to the building is located. Since the building is located on an urban corner, it can be accessed from context on both sides of the road. The first access is from the main road Agim Ramadani, with a set of stairs while another access is enabled from the road Eqrem Qabej, both bringing to the same point, the entrance patio. The canteen is completely transparent due to the public function, with large windows, which opens the views towards the silhouette of the city. Constructive elements such as columns and structural slabs with natural concrete are emphasized in the external expression of the building and participate significantly in the structural and aesthetic form of the building.It has a very articulated facade with its balconies and several platforms that continue into the open public space, making it more communicative to the surroundings. It is listed as an important Modernist Heritage. The undisputed architectural values of the Student Canteen were written at the time by the architect Andrija Mutnjakovi (architect of the National Library), in the magazine 'Arhitektura' of 1981, considering it as one of the most significant buildings of modern architecture in Kosovo. In 2018, Menza was renovated, being partially covered with a color rendered facade, covering or painting parts of the original material from natural concrete, with a ribbed texture. These interventions have covered the original elements of the building, which allow the understanding of the architectural language and the understanding of the architectural period to which the building belongs, practices which are not supported when intervening in buildings of historical and architectural value.
