---
city: pristina
demolished: false
link: "https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Cultural_and_Sports_Center_%27Boro_Ramizi%27"
longitude: "21.1555724"
latitude: "42.6611111"
image: Youth_and_Sports_Center_Prishtina_Ex-Boro_Ramiz_05.jpg
---
In the series of constructions of the 70s, the Youth and Sports center was built. Kosovo had a majority of young people therefore the need for sports and recreation centers for this category arose. The center was originally named 'Boro and Ramiz', after two World War II partisans and Yugoslav heroes Boro Vukmirović and Ramiz Sadiku. This connection symbolized the coexistence and brotherhood between Serbs and Albanians. The building seems to have been designed in the same concept - with two volumes that share a common structural axis. The Boro Ramiz building was the product of a competition held in 1974, where 6 studios were called and the winner was the Sarajevo-based architecture studio 'DOM' with the main architects: Zivorad Jankovic, Halid Muhasilovic, Sretko Eshpek, who had many projects of the same typology, carried out throughout the then Yugoslav federation. Zivorad Jankovic, also a professor at the Faculty of Architecture in Sarajevo and Pristina, had a significant name when it came to designing sports and recreation centers. The construction lasted from 1976-1982 and the contractor for the realization of the construction was the company Ramiz Sadiku. Based on conversations with center employees who witnessed the construction of the building as well as old photos, shopping malls and spaces where today is the Red Hall and the American School of Kosovo were built first while the central compositional part where the indoor large halls were added after. The solution offered by the team from Sarajevo, located on 60,000 square meters, included: a large universal hall, a small hall, four training halls, a bowling alley and numerous accompanying facilities, a youth center, a shopping center, an indoor pool, outdoor sports fields for small sports, skating and outdoor pool. What makes it special is its volume, its scale, its materiality and the fact that it works as a connecting point with many important points of context. The building has the Printing House Rilindja, the City Stadium and in the original project there should have been a platform that connects it to the Grand Hotel. In addition to its architectural value, it is also believed to have a symbolic meaning, characteristic of a modern concept of regionalism, where its volume represents many national meanings. On February 25, 2000, the building was severely damaged by fire, completely burning the south side of the building, so the large hall today remains used as garages and non-functional, while other spaces are actively used but not properly preserved.
